Hello everyone and welcome back in this lecture we'll be discussing Django templates.
Templates are a key part of understanding how Django really works and interacts with your web site.
Later on we will learn about how to connect templates with models so that you can display data created
dynamically taken straight from your database.
However for now let's focus on the basics of templates and later on template tags.
The template will contain the static parts of NHT M-L page parts that are always the same.
You can think of it almost as the scaffolding or skeleton of the page.
Then there are a template text which have their own special syntax.
This syntax allows you to inject dynamic content that you're Django absentees will produce affecting
the final h Tamil that the user sees to get started with templates.
You first need to create a templates directory and then a subdirectory for each specific apps templates
or at least by convention.
That's how we're going to do it.
Here it goes inside of your top level directory.
So in our example we'll have something that looks like this.
The first project folder or directory then we'll create a new templates folder and inside of that we'll
have the first underscore app folder or that rectory.
The next step is let jinglin know of the templates by editing the D R key inside of the templates dictionary
in the settings that py file.
So inside the settings py file for the project.
There is a variable called templates and it's a dictionary inside that dictionary is a string.
D i r which stands for directory and that's what we need to edit to let Django know where the templates
are.
However there is an issue with this that we have to deal with before we can actually edit that templates.
Variable we want our jingle project to be easily transferable from one computer to another.
But the DJR or directory key is going to really require a hard coded file path and that means we're
going to have a conundrum.
We can't really hard code a file path with our username if we want to easily share this project or application
with other users and then we have the whole issue of different operating systems.
Someone using a Mac isn't going to be able to use the same file path settings as someone using a Windows
computer.
So the question is how do we actually resolve this.
Well this is where the power of Python comes into play.
We can use Python's os module to dynamically generate the correct file path strings regardless of whose
ever computer you're using or whatever operating system you're using.
Do you want to check this out.
You can import os with Python and then try something like the following Prince underscore underscore
file underscore underscore or print OS that path.
Name and then pass that file tag.
And we're going to actually show you examples of this right.
We're done with this presentation but we're going to be using this os module to feed the path to the
DDR key inside of that template dictionary.
Once we have done that we can create H.T. a mail file called index storage DML inside of the templates
first app directory inside the this L file.
We will insert template tags along with normal h l these template tags are also sometimes known as Django
template variables.
These template variables will allow us to inject content into the HVM l directly from Django.
Now as a quick note these template tags can be a little intimidating for beginners and the reason for
that is because they don't look exactly like h T.M. and they don't look exactly like Python either because
of this new pseudo mix between the two.
So they're a little intimidating at first and you may find them confusing when you're first dealing
with them.
But don't worry we're going to be working with them often enough that by the end of this course you'll
feel really comfortable calling template tags.
So as a quick note Don't be intimidating if you see this thing come out of nowhere but we will have
a full understanding of template tags as we progressed through the course and we'll start off slow and
steady to get comfortable with them in your own time.
So this is now starting to really reveal the power of why we should even be using a web framework.
Will be able to inject content into the HMO much means we can later on use Python code to inject content
from a database which will learn about when we learn about models.
Django in order to achieve all of this what we will use is a new function called the render function
and place it into our original index function inside of our views that py file that we've been working
with.
So I know I've been talking a lot so let's now actually jump to the add on text editor and code through
everything that we just discussed.
Already here and back at the Adam text editor.
Now before we get started actually creating our templates what I want to do is quickly talk again about
those dynamic paths using Python's os module to actually generate dynamic paths so you don't have to
worry about giving the file to a computer that's on another operating system.
What we can do here is under first project first project.
Open up our settings that py file and you'll notice that actually at the top.
Import os has already been imported for you and there's a base directory and this basically builds the
paths inside of the project.
And if we actually just run this file we can explore what these file paths actually are.
So let's go ahead and do that.
We're going to change directory you first project that way am under first project first project and
then right now I will say Python settings stop PI enter and we shouldn't see any output because we're
not printing anything out.
So we can run it now it's actually print stuff out and explore what it actually is.
We'll start off with this file and this is essentially just a special key indicating the settings that
high file.
So if I save this and run it now I get settings that pi as my file output so that's the actual file.
And now let's print out this the O S path the absolute path to this.
So I can just copy and paste this from here.
Copy that and then paste it here saved this.
And now let's front that.
And here we can see it printed out my actual full file path.
So here and there see users my name desktop my jingoes stuff.
First project first project settings start pi.
And this is the sort of thing we're going to be using to actually feed and file paths.
So we will feed even directly from python instead of typing out something like this.
And then finally we can see what this base Diyar is.
So this whole thing has been set up as a variable already conveniently for us so we can use it later.
Willing to say this and then actually just print out base directory and we can see here when we print
out the base directory.
It prints out the directory that leads directly to the first project.
So this most upper directory with this base underscore directory variable we can use it's conveniently
call our new templates directory that we're about to create.
Let's first create that directory and then show you how you can create the template directory under
the top directory of first project.
I will click and then add in a new folder and I will call this folder templates all lowercase.
And here you can see I have a new templates folder.
Right now it's empty.
And then I can use this base directory and add onto it templates.
Now you may be tempted to do something like this as a simple add on maybe backslash and then templates
but that's actually not going to work for many reasons.
One is stuff may be treated as an escape character and to this isn't going to work for all operating
systems.
If you are on a Linux or Mac maybe or forward slash will go the other way.
Etc. so what are you going to do is use OS stop path that joyn actually joined these two.
So we're going to put a comma here and now instead of calling Prince I will call O S path that join
and this will actually join these two together.
And let's show you what that looks like when I say print's going to save this and then run settings
that high again.
And here I can see the full directory for my local machine to that templates folder.
And in this case I'm not actually going to print this but actually save this as a new variable and this
variable is going to be called template underscore the IIR so templates underscore DJR sets the template
directory.
Let's save that and then we're going to edit the directories.
If we scroll down here still in the settings up-I going to go past the installed apps go past the middleware
and here under templates.
I'm going to passen for the directories so remember this is just essentially a dictionary type object.
Than the here's is key.
Rectories inside of it I will passen that template underscore the our variable we just made and we can
put in a comma there and then save this.
All right.
So here we have everything set up ready to go with the paths going to be concatenated correctly.
Let's move on to the next step of actually adding a template within our template directory.
We're going to Right-Click put in a new file and we will call this file index the HMO and inside of
this I will just put in my regular HTL code and we can set this title to be something like.
First app save that and then we're actually going to put in a little bit of information here in the
body.
We'll put in the header and say something like Hello this is indexed HMO save that and then we're going
to show you what a template looks like in to make it really obvious how it's going to work will give
it a name that makes it very clear.
So as far as syntax for a template tag or at least the very first thing we're going to do.
You have essentially two sets of these curly brackets on each side and then the actual variable.
You're going to passen in this case we'll call this variable inserts underscore me so that we can actually
see that we're inserting stuff using Django some going to say this again very simple 20:00 file except
there might be a little confusing is this template tag right now and don't worry if you find that a
little intimidating because it's kind of weird and new we will see this more and more as we go throughout
the course.
Now what we need to do is actually connect this variable insert me to our actual project and our application
and the way we're going to do that is by editing the views that py file of our first underscore app.
So we will come here to views that pi and here we have the index takes and a request returns and HTP
response Hello World and said well we're going to do now is notice we have from Jingo that shortcuts
import render that should already be there by default but if you don't have it go ahead and type that
in.
And now what we will do is actually edit this function and we're going to say something like this will
say create a dictionary and we will call it my underscore dictionary or whatever you want to call it.
And then here this is the important part.
We'll have a key value pair.
And in this case we need this key to match the variable that we created over in that template tag.
So in that case it was insert me and we'll just have it be a string and say something like Hello I am
from use that pi
we will save that and then we're going to return.
And this is where we can actually use the render function.
And in this case for the render function we're going to pass passen it takes in the request and then
it takes in as a string where you actually want to show this.
So again that first parameter is just really the template we wish to use.
And then the next thing I need to add in is the actual file itself indexed HVM el.
And then here as the third argument is the context and this good basically going to link up what we're
passing in here to our index is the mail file and we're actually going to change this in a little bit
we'll create a subdirectory but I'll explain that right after we test this out to make sure it all works.
So here shouldn't be a string will pass in that dictionary we just created and then we will save all
of this.
And let's actually make sure this all worked out and then we'll explain it and show you why you should
edit this just a little bit by actually referencing the specific application.
So let's run this.
Make sure all work out.
And then we're going explain and do a little quick review.
So I'm going to back up to see the.
Under first project they all say Python managed up-I run the server enter and looks like our servers
are running so let's just copy and paste this.
And as always I'll bring in my browser and then bringing in my browser over here.
Look who we get.
We say hello.
This is indexed.
H T.M..
And then we say hello I am from buse that pie.
So we have the original header that is from index that it's T.M..
We look at index that CML we would find it there and then we see this little message.
Hello I am from B is that PI.
So this is pretty much the amazing part of what we're doing here.
We're actually inserting using Jenga.
We say hello I'm from the used up pie and using that template tagging I can then pass that in.
Now a quick note.
Well we want to do is actually separate out our templates per application.
So what I should do is this under my templates I'm going to create a new folder and name it after my
application first app and then I will move index each T.M. into first app and that way we keep our code
modular and the next thing I have to do is come back to use that pi.
And here I will call first underscore app and then actually call the index there.
And this slash should actually go the other way and this slash is OK to go that way because this is
basically what your browser is going to be reading.
So we will save that and let's check it again make sure everything works and let's go ahead and just
to make sure thing work change this.
So say something like.
Now I am coming from coming from first app
index.
Saved this.
And let's bring in that back that browser make sure all were.
And I just refreshed the page and now I see this one coming from first app index studied Simmo.
OK great.
Looks like everything worked out then our templates are good to go.
So let's break down everything we just did real quickly just so we get a fuller standing of how the
basics of templates work and when to minimize this.
Right.
First thing we had to do was create essentially our templates directory and inside that template directory
you should create the rectory for each application and then inside it that is where your actual All
files are going to go.
And later on we'll see how to incorporate things such as JavaScript and see SS because we've created
this templates directory.
We need to let settings that pi know about it and the way we did this is we took advantage of a couple
of things.
One was the import os and Python's operating system and then we had the template directory.
Now we use Python's OS module to say oh stop Hathout join and join the space directory to that templates
that we just created and you'll always want to use OS that path join instead of something more manual.
That way the code can run on any operating system.
Once we've done that we come back here two views and we learn how to use import render which is something
we're going to be using a lot more often than just a simple APCP response.
And then with the render function we can create a dictionary.
Now this dictionary is then going to have the actual content that we want to inject into that index
the amount it takes in the key and this key is going to be the variable that we pass into that template
Ted.
In this case we just called it insert me to make it really obvious.
And now here I say now and coming from Stapp index etc. and in the render pasand the request passen
the actually it's T.M..
And then for the context we pass in this dictionary and then it will read in the Keys when it actually
wants to inject stuff into this index that H.T. mail file.
All right.
Now I know that was certainly a lot in a lot of new things but don't worry as we continue on throughout
this course this is going to feel more and more comfortable for you.
OK.
Hope you enjoyed that lecture and we'll see you in the next one.